We've now got an initial implementation of our event bus, but together we're now going to start to
go through our post service and our common service.
Any time something interesting happens inside those services, such as creating a new post or creating
a new comment, we're going to make sure that we send a request over to this event's endpoint in our
event bus.
And in that request, we're going to include the event.
Event bus will then take that event and echo it out to all the different services running inside of
our application.
At present, our different services do not have this post events end point wired up, so when the event
plus tries to send that request over, the request is going to fail due to a 404.
As soon as we make sure that the event plus can emit this event will then go back over and start to
implement these endpoints that the other services can listen to these events that are being emitted.
But again, for right now, we're just going to make sure that the post service is going to emit this
event any time someone creates a new post.
So let's get to it.
Between the last video and this one, I opened up my code editor inside of my root blog project directory.
We're going to start to have to change between all four of these different services very quickly.
And so it's just a lot easier to maneuver between them if we have all of our projects open inside of
one editor as opposed to four separate editors.
I'm going to find the post directory inside there.
I'll find the indexed JS file at the very top.
I'll immediately require an Axios.
Like so.
I'm then going to scroll down to our post endpoint.
So this is the code that gets executed every single time someone tries to create a new post.
So this would be a perfect time to try to emit an event saying, Hey, someone just made a new post.
Right after we add the new post to our post collection, I'll use Axios to make a post request over
to HTTP.
Colon slash slash local host colon for 2005.
Because remember, that is where our broker is running slash events.
And then as the second argument, we'll put in the actual event that we want to send over.
So for right now, we'll say that every event that we met is going to have two properties.
The first one is going to be a type, and that type describes the event that just occurred.
The second property will be a data property and that will have some information that further clarifies
exactly what happened.
So in the case of creating a post will probably include the actual post that was just created as the
data property.
Remember, the event that we send out throughout our application can have any structure we want.
It doesn't even have to be an object.
It can be a string or a number, any data you want to have.
But usually we're going to make sure that all these events have a very consistent structure.
We'll talk more about the design and sort of schema of events quite a bit over time.
So for right now, we're just going to say that every event will have a type and data.
Get the sea object right here is essentially the event that I want to have be emitted or my entire application.
So I'm going to give it a type of post created.
And then a data and data is going to be the post that we just made.
I remember all of our posts have an ID and title.
That's essentially what our post is.
So we pretty much want to take that style of object right there, include it as the data property,
we'll say ID and title.
And then finally, this is an asynchronous operation making the network request.
So we will add on async and await like so.
Okay.
I'm going to say this.
We're going to flip back over to our browser and find our running React application.
I'm going to refresh this page and as soon as I do, you'll notice that all the posts go away.
That is totally fine.
It's because, remember, all of our posts are being stored in memory with that post service.
So as soon as we restart that server, all of our posts just disappear.
All right.
I'll go ahead and try to create a post.
They'll call this new post and submit it.
We don't have any kind of live reload on the React application, so I have to refresh the page as soon
as I do.
So I do see the new post up here.
But what happened to that event?
Well, let's go take a look at our terminal.
We'll take a look at our server logs and we'll just make sure that the post service did try to send
that event over to the event bus.
So here are my terminal logs right here.
This second window that I have right here that's kind of highlighted is the post service.
I don't see any information there.
That's very interesting.
If I go down to the bottom window right here, that is where my event broker or event bus is living
or actually running.
At present.
It looks like there is a couple of errors here.
So all these errors are identical in nature.
They all say request failed with status 404.
So that is actually good.
Remember, as I mentioned just a moment ago, our post service, common service and query service that
doesn't even exist, exist yet does not have this post slash event's endpoint.
They don't have any way of actually receiving these events.
So even though the event bus is trying to send that event off, well, there's nothing to receive it,
which is why we're getting that 404 error.
So overall, let's say this looks good.
We are definitely emitting an event to the event bus any time something interesting happens inside the
post service.
So let's take a pause right here and continue in just a moment.